##E Pluribus Unum

 My piece attempts to reflect the current state of the USA (circa 2019). The obvious
stand out of the piece is the word "AMERICA", reflecting the two dominant parties in the country (Democrats and Republicans). The current dichotomy of the system has clogged legislation and judicial process while cultivating corruption and trigger topics (gun control, immigration, climate change, education, etc.) To make matters worse, barely half the voter-eligible population turns up at polls, and a fair share of these voters are misinformed, ignorant, or biased. The average American doesn't take time to sift through the onslaught of daily news and politics, hence the large and polarized word "AMERICA" in my collage -- a word some would see and ultimately think "Hey yeah, those damn [Democrats/Republicans] trying to ruin something again" before moving without trying to distinguish the background information. Those that move on to the background text after the word "AMERICA" will notice representative colors for the two major parties (blue and red) and a third color (gray) for other important news. The text isn't supposed to be easy to read. Disorienting, chaotic, piece-meal, and depressing, like trying to keep up with current news and politics. If, unlike the average American, someone digs into the image, then they'd find the American system stagnating and rotting, the concealed glimmer of corpocracy, and the spreading infection of foreign influence and interference.

The title of the collage ("E Pluribus Unum") was the original motto of the USA. The phrase translates to "Out of many, one". However, the motto was changed to "In God We Trust" in the 1950s in response to Cold War, anti-communist sentiment. This transition from the mindset of a nation of united individuals to "us versus them" is abundantly relevant for the modern nation of the USA. No longer are the "Americans" equal to "us" and the "communists" to "them", rather the "conservatives" are "us" and the "liberals" are "them" or "democrats" are "us" and the "republicans" are "them". Occasionally the "us versus them" argument is used against authoritarian or communistic governments (e.g. Chinese government) but for the most part the American people have created a great division among themselves with this phrase. The title was also chosen for its use of Latin, which was propelled to eminence by the Roman Republic (and later Roman Empire). The USA, with its cult followings, expanding activists and information outlets, accumulation of wealth by those at the top, corruption of the system, and negligence to address the grief of the masses is reminiscent of the [Roman Republic](https://time.com/4986516/ancient-rome-comparison-mike-duncan/) in the late first 1st century-early 2nd century.
